---
layout: default
title: narrative1
---
**Project Narrative**

**Enhancement 1**

**Software Design And Engineering**

**Briefly describe the artifact. What is it? When was it created?**

The artifact I have chosen to use is the course project developed for
IT-145. The original artifact is a very basic Java inventory management
program designed to run from the command line.

**Justify the inclusion of the artifact in your ePortfolio. Why did you
select this item? What specific components of the artifact showcase your
skills and abilities in software development? How was the artifact
improved?**

I chose this artifact for my work in this course because I believe it is
a solid base to work from and can be used to demonstrate all required
outcomes for this course. I have chosen to call the application
“R.A.I.N”, short for Rescue Animal Inventory Navigator.

For this first enhancement, intended to show competency in software
design and engineering, I have converted the basic interface of the
application to a Python-based web application using the Flask
application framework and the Bulma CSS framework. I have also converted
relevant Java classes to Python equivalents, ready to be used for
information storage, retrieval, and search operations.

**Did you meet the course objectives you planned to meet with this
enhancement in Module One? Do you have any updates to your
outcome-coverage plans?**

I have met the objectives I planned to achieve at this point in the
course. I have shown my ability to start with a concept and create an
application from scratch. I have laid out the base of what the completed
application will look like as well as outlining the basic functionality.

**Reflect on the process of enhancing and modifying the artifact. What
did you learn as you were creating it and improving it? What challenges
did you face?**

I have learned quite a bit from the work I’ve done up to this point.
Before beginning the enhancements on this application, I had never used
Flask or Bulma. So, as I’m creating the web application I am learning
more and more about the two frameworks and how they can be used. So far,
I am pleased with both the functionality and visual outcomes that I’ve
been able to achieve. I’ve laid out the basic page templates that will
be used throughout the app, created routes to relevant endpoints, and
created a theme to be used throughout the pages to make sure everything
has a cohesive look and flow. The pages function, and I can navigate
through them using the Flask development server and my web browser.

My planned next steps include refining the code used so far to make
better use of Flask functionality and page templates, as well as
implementing database functionality and user authentication. Once the
database functionality is available, I will be able to implement the
functions to build out the menus and manipulate real data.
