---
layout: default
title: narrative2
---
**Project Narrative**

**Enhancement 2**

**Algorithms And Data Structures**

**Briefly describe the artifact. What is it? When was it created?**

As mentioned in my previous narrative update, the artifact I have chosen
to use is the course project developed for IT-145. The original artifact
is a very basic Java inventory management program designed to run from
the command line.

**Justify the inclusion of the artifact in your ePortfolio. Why did you
select this item? What specific components of the artifact showcase your
skills and abilities in software development? How was the artifact
improved?**

I chose this artifact for my work in this course because I believe it is
a solid base to work from and can be used to demonstrate all required
outcomes for this course. I have chosen to call the application
“R.A.I.N”, short for Rescue Animal Inventory Navigator.

In this iteration, I made some minimal enhancements to the front-end
user interface as I worked on adding more to the back end. A lot of the
work I did in this version of my project involved adding and refactoring
code to improve functionality. I have the basic database functionality
implemented and have put together routines that check the database and
tables and create demo data.

As this milestone is intended to deal with algorithms and data
structures, I added additional code to create a large demonstration data
set with 100k objects of the same type that will be used throughout the
application. Although the output is not very polished at this point, I
created several different routines that use three common algorithms to
sort randomized lists of 100k objects and compare the performance of
each type of sort algorithm. The result page can be refreshed to
generate new data and results, allowing the user to see how performance
times can change as the data is randomized and changed with each new
page load.

**Did you meet the course objectives you planned to meet with this
enhancement in Module One? Do you have any updates to your
outcome-coverage plans?**

I have met the objectives I planned to achieve for this milestone. The
work I have completed at this point shows that I can create useful data
structures such as the class objects and lists of objects that my
application uses. The sort algorithm comparison also shows that I
understand different methods for sorting data and how to apply those
methods to sort lists of objects based on given object attributes.

My next planned steps are to add search capabilities and custom sorting
options to the inventory lists which will allow users to zero in on
exactly what they want. Following that, I plan to make each object in
inventory lists clickable so that users can go to a view for editing or
deleting existing items. I also plan to add functionality to allow users
to add new items to implement full CRUD functionality. Finally, I plan
to add user authorization and login to the system so that the system and
data are protected from unauthorized use.

**Reflect on the process of enhancing and modifying the artifact. What
did you learn as you were creating it and improving it? What challenges
did you face?**

I spent a lot of time this week trying to improve the functionality of
the main inventory list, which will be the center-point of the app. It
took some time, but I learned a lot about how to make use of both the
Flask and Bulma frameworks to develop a much more appealing and
intuitive interface. One of the major improvements is pagination in the
main list, making it much easier to navigate.

I am looking forward to having all the back-end functions complete and
being able to concentrate on polishing the front-end to create an
attractive and functional user interface.
