---
layout: page
title: narrative1
---
**Project Narrative**

**Enhancement 2**

**Databases**

**Briefly describe the artifact. What is it? When was it created?**

As mentioned in my last narrative update, the artifact I have chosen to
use is the course project developed for IT-145. The original artifact is
a very basic Java inventory management program designed to run from the
command line.

**Justify the inclusion of the artifact in your ePortfolio. Why did you
select this item? What specific components of the artifact showcase your
skills and abilities in software development? How was the artifact
improved?**

I chose this artifact for my work in this course because I believe it is
a solid base to work from and can be used to demonstrate all required
outcomes for this course. I have chosen to call the application
“R.A.I.N”, short for Rescue Animal Inventory Navigator.

In this iteration of the project, I have fully implemented the database
system. The application creates, reads, updates, and deletes records
from the database correctly. The system will also create the (SQLite)
database and tables automatically if they do not exist when it is run.

I have also implemented functionality that allows the user to easily
search and filter the records from the database based on several
different criteria. More than one search term or filter can be used at
the same time to get very granular control over what is displayed.

The database is also used to store user login credentials. The
application provides routes to add new users and log in and out of the
application. Passwords for user accounts are stored in the database as
hashes of the original password so that anyone with access to the
database cannot see user passwords.

Finally, I’ve included a README.md file for the project with a
description of what is required, such as SQLite and various Python
modules, and how to run the application. As I get more done on the
application itself, I will expand the readme to include more detailed
instructions and examples of how the system can be used.

**Did you meet the course objectives you planned to meet with this
enhancement in Module One? Do you have any updates to your
outcome-coverage plans?**

I have met the objectives I planned to achieve at this point in the
course. Although I am still tweaking some of the functionality as I look
for ways to make improvements, I think most of my time moving forward
will now be spent on the interface to make it as easy and intuitive as
possible to use.

**Reflect on the process of enhancing and modifying the artifact. What
did you learn as you were creating it and improving it? What challenges
did you face?**

I think I have a very good handle on most of the “under the hood”
components now. What I am finding the most challenging at this point is
putting together the HTML and CSS to get the look and feel that I want
for the various parts of the interface. I have gone through several
phases of breaking and fixing layouts as I try to get what I want.
Although it can be frustrating, I feel that I have learned a lot about
what can and cannot be done with CSS frameworks. I definitely have more
confidence in my ability to create a useful web-based interface than I
did when this project began.
